JMeter page migration (#3623)
jenkins-infra/jenkins.io: content/doc/book/using/using-jmeter-with-jekins.adoc

---
layout: section
title: Using JMeter with Jekins
---
ifdef::backend-html5[]
:description:
:author:
:email: jenkinsci-docs@googlegroups.com
:sectanchors:
:toc:
:toclevels: 4
:hide-uri-scheme:
ifdef::env-github[:imagesdir: ../resources]
ifndef::env-github[:imagesdir: ../../resources]
endif::[]

> = Using JMeter with Jekins

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= Using JMeter with Jenkins
```

---
layout: section
title: Using JMeter with Jekins
---
ifdef::backend-html5[]
:description:
:author:
:email: jenkinsci-docs@googlegroups.com
:sectanchors:
:toc:
:toclevels: 4
:hide-uri-scheme:
ifdef::env-github[:imagesdir: ../resources]
ifndef::env-github[:imagesdir: ../../resources]
endif::[]

= Using JMeter with Jekins

There are big advantages to use JMeter and Jenkins together.
Continuous Integration and Test Automation become standards on the DevOps world, 
but the performance levels and system complexity it is increasing day after day. 

> as is increasing our challenger to keep our quality requirements.

Reviewer 2: Possible alternate phrasing
```suggestion
as is increasing the challenge to maintain high quality.
```

Luckily, with Jenkins we can integrate all JMeter tests in our pipeline process 
and know better each detail of our applications.

> Some os main benefits of using JMeter with Jenkins are:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Some of the main benefits of using JMeter with Jenkins are:
```

> * Unattended test execution for each system. 

Reviewer 2: Usually don't end a bulleted line with a full stop
```suggestion
* Unattended test execution for each system
```

> * Control of each automatic build failures and their recovery steps

Reviewer 2: Possibly meant log rather than control?
```suggestion
* Logs of build failures and recovery steps
```

* Secure and easy access to test reports of each build

> * Automated routine work and others.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Automate routine work
```

== The Apache JMeter

> The link:https://jmeter.apache.org/[Apache JMeter] may be used to test performance both on static and dynamic resources, Web dynamic applications.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
link:https://jmeter.apache.org/[Apache JMeter] may be used to test performance of static sites, dynamic sites, and complete web applications.
```

It can be used to simulate a heavy load on a server, group of servers, network or object to test its strength or to analyze overall performance under different load types.

== Jenkins Instalation

The Jenkins docs already have a page to help us with the link:/doc/book/installing/[Jenkins installation process.].
At this guide I'm using the .jar way, [visit the link:/doc/pipeline/tour/getting-started/[Guided tour page] if you want to use it too. 
Both will give you the same results.

> == The Performance plugin Instalation

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
== Install the performance plugin
```

In order to integrate JMeter with Jenkins, we will work with the  plugin:performance[Performance Plugin]. 

Follow these steps to install it:

1. From your Jenkins dashboard page go to: `Menage Jenkins` 
2. Go to `Menage Plugins` page;
3. Click on the `Available Tab` and write 'performance' in the search field;
4. Mark the installation checkbox and press the button: "Install without restart"
+
image:jmeter/jmeter-00.png[performance plugin]
5. If everything goes well you will receive this confirmation screen:
+
image:jmeter/jmeter-01.png[Install confirmation page]

== JMeter Instalation

In order to Install JMeter follow these steps: 

1. Go to link:https://jmeter.apache.org/download_jmeter.cgi[Apache JMeter download page]

> 2. Pick you download option based on your system: .zip to windows or .tgz to Linux
> 3. I'm on windows, so I get the .zip option after download extract the content in your preferred location. (e.g.: c:\jmeter)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Pick your download option based on your system: .zip for windows or .tgz to Linux (I'm on windows, so I get the .zip option)
3. Extract the downloaded file in your preferred location. (e.g.: c:\jmeter)
```

+
image:jmeter/jmeter-04.png[plan test screen]
5. Increase the `Number of threads (users)` to 5 at Thread Group and to 2 on the `Loop Count`;
6. Now on the left side, click with the right button on your Thread Group item, go though: `Add > Sampler > Http Requester` and select Http Requester option;
+
image:jmeter/jmeter-05.png[Thread Group]
7. At Http Request, Fill: The `Name` of test, the `Server Name`, and the `Path Context`; (e.g: Installing; www.jenkins.io; and /doc/book/installing/ )
+
image:jmeter/jmeter-06.png[Http Resquest sample]
8. Repeat steps 6 and 7 more two times to different contexts/pages. (e.g.: www.jenkins.io/node)
9. Now our plan has 3 things to test. 
10. To add a visual report click with the right button on your Thread Group item, go though: `Add > Listener > View results in table` and select View results in table option;
+
image:jmeter/jmeter-07.png[Save and run pan test]
11. Now let's save our plan test. Click on "disk icon", give a name a save with a .jmx extension (e.g.: jenkins.io.jml)
12. Now run the test and see the table results.
+
image:jmeter/jmeter-08.png[test results]

=== First JMeter Test Plan using terminal commands

> Our Test seems workly well on GUI, 
> but in order to integrate it on Jenkins, it needs to be able to run it by commands as well.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Our test is working well in the graphical user interface, 
but in order to integrate it with Jenkins, it needs to run from the command line.
```

Follow these steps to test:

1. From the terminal run the command:
+
[bash]
----
c:\jmeter\bin\jmeter -j jmeter.save.saveservice.output_format=xml -n -t c:\jmeter\bin\jenkins.io.jmx -l c:\jmeter\reports\jenkins.io.report.jtl
----
2. If everything works well the report file will be create at indicated location by -l paramter:
+
image:jmeter/jmeter-09.png[manual test results]

> Now we have everything we need to create the Jenkins pipeline using Jmeter
> 

Reviewer 2: Same sentence is used immediately after the next heading
```suggestion
```

> == Jekins and JMeter running together

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
== Jenkins and JMeter running together
```

Now we have everything we need to execute JMeter from Jekins. Follow these steps:

1. From Jenkins dashboard go to `New Item`;
2. Fill the item name (e.g.: JmeterTest), select freestyle project, then press OK;
3. Go to Build `Environment tab`, click on `Add build step`, and select the option: `Execute Windows batch command`

> 4. Now fill the field with same code we use to run Jmeter at previous section:

Reviewer 2: With this definition of the JMeter job, it will only run on the Jenkins controller (formerly known as the Jenkins master).  I think we should describe how to run on agents rather than running on the controller.  Did I misunderstand something in the instructions?
```suggestion
4. Now fill the field with same code we use to run Jmeter at previous section:
```
